R-0.0.1 (#89)
bob-crutchley/notes: topics/networking/modules/tcp/README.md

The three main parts to take in to consideration with TCP data transfers is the *sequence number*, *acknowledgment number* and the *window size*.
The sequence and acknowledgement numbers are essential for both devices on the connection to be able to transfer the data in order and reliably.
The window size is important for increasing the overall transfer speed of the data, the server will increase the window size as the connection continues so that it does not have to keep replying with acknowledgements as often.
1. The client and server first connect using the 3-way handshake as shown above.
2. The client sends a packet to the server containing the first sequence of data, this is data block one of the PNG image. The client now awaits a response from the server.
3. The server responds with an acknowledgement to say that the data for sequence 1 was received correctly and also gives a window value to let the client know that they will send another acknowledgement once one more sequences have been received.
4. The acknowledgement is received by the client, 1 more data sequence is then sent in a packet to the server, including a reference to the acknowledgement which asked for it.

> 5. Sequence 2 is received by the server and an acknowledgement response is created with an increased window value this time. The server will now not reply until it has received sequences 3 & 4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Sequence 2 is received by the server and an acknowledgement response is created, with an increased window value this time. The server will now not reply until it has received sequences 3 & 4.
```

6. The response from the server asking for sequences 3 & 4 fails and does not reach the client. After the timeout period, the client sends the sequence 2 packet again.

> 7. The server receives the packet for sequence 2 again and then once again asks for sequences 3 & 4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The server receives the packet for sequence 2 again and then, once again, asks for sequences 3 & 4.
```

> 8. This time the acknowledgement packet from the server reaches the client and the client sends two packets, one for sequence 3 & 4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. This time, the acknowledgement packet from the server reaches the client and the client sends two packets, one for sequence 3 and one for sequence 4.
```

9. This pattern of sending, acknowledging and increasing the window size continues until there is a connection termination.

![TCP Data Transfer](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/Oz074lzAMSFv68esdoexOJ4eABpFhUSiR3fqn-Scvv1atC3wrQbY_vey6KAnP4z5wImNwhJlX6jQY_PNHD6fpYvPd7RDt-GCVe28JcalbgUFXHcLs_snA6pzDU6s1dkyNtqRjY9ZEGt7hY552o4LITQVd6bTT5jjh7PJ0I_K8021XQPgMoKuX7s7yqCgZ06fnsiiL6iWtVO40bDeQwKpxuZHaX0x6_4jnclo80X-XMOhniiiUctKieP_gNmBCU4i-APcE-uRK7Zy-6POzMUNiFa1dqZ-pXrEsOCGjb4i0_SkU3G6P76_chDtmgU6GTbdR1_nxvgV0F-tB9GtZXdb8Xld7tUjGyZBlUceEo_FKLlFyxqv28DBUjUezjLDndR0_ZbGAtAjlFDWTIYtJmK-MFgwaoU_gtPQ595U_MkAsUQl_FANeuCt_3pEFEYkXBUWFNtT6tI6R9ykgQ-VsS4GfThe9fCrjkCLJtcf2NxlKrv10spQ3XT89Tvhchvy8WWIhiPinkfkyfgeWCvslRHbXkBQm9CkEXDsOQ8vIrO--4YeYtiKMl0rFSz5cvDHvSB1o7jJENQ3hpCG4pA9PKzRt_eOx2YSrkBWvLMeIbLFWaBRkBR9ACaWS20xKkK-H9sEfrHXCl-HLAwzg5yFiKeP5pF3awq-aAuCEIJmfAP5JZDGM06GE1uB7tT4e3fM5PhKZnDZ0un1hdZXnPO_wHiGu8-WVIljd-h31O-vaN9l4sbFdYLu=w911-h1060-no)

### Connection Termination (Graceful Close)
Here is the process for terminating a TCP connection:

> 1. The client, or local machine sends a data packet to the remote server with the `FIN` control flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The client, or local machine, sends a data packet to the remote server with the `FIN` control flag
```

> 2. Once the server recieves the packet the connection is terminated and a `FIN-ACK` packet is sent back to the client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Once the server recieves the packet, the connection is terminated and a `FIN-ACK` packet is sent back to the client
```

> 3. The client server now *acknoledges* the connection termination by sending an `ACK` packet back to the sever

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The client server now *acknowledges* the connection termination, by sending an `ACK` packet back to the sever
```

![TCP Connection Termination](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/wxM7JkZo60NgRtrhwDXIsG0d96F-yEa1xwh4GxqxgISBipDc6zPSghRhDE4GHyHzgxGi5usW-GUFLFJsgiTZ3wuK-Yh4yeeZeN4IUmgFAriuLawjkbcTbJ9y0q6BFOFINDQYS3UbyzkA549Yh-SOHBC6ctd70sPJ9IzxQNW0RmdMV-81I1Len-DKE_bDGfEKZoMimHzcRI6xNqX76Xz44AwaITc92QAmWYkWB1kszZ9x8tNTs6ehofCZGxijAdk4PmTBppf1UHkfdHp9EU-778_X79bkQ388adIbE2HMz6DEkFmTALPLtNUPg0VXRXZD60GSKkI-toN_lhn-6iEnEyvaqa376hHqPyPUCdJyYbSQnf6tBfzFDxq0ZAb4GpNbfQw4MItn8sWa5Oxzx9vCNmQKtNA_R7G27T-jvlwMjeXhcTe8mEsfw5_L0FCeLeQ-ZxfdgG79hmtkXdmTqWZ6FTPxBOqaOTnVoWRzVPNt3k-jyXlFGJlugJoSNZ0weQmXAAQJr1_UeLQrORK7vEiLhvlU3qy0JwbFAuMs765QU6widCv-bRhQhJtmJX88ccFLCnXZVXJ0ykUWbgw-WxCwDtIuF1Z9jy6Ow8xPZNqg7auJeGj9daID0UTS1qLFRyNMZt_KlxcPdujPUv4Tracblb3jnVeYI2q2W0L1NMUFErEATBhQ9TrvUBr45a4iIgZqqRbzlB3VKaxUEBITMvHYtxZk4As2auk7DrQmUyfpyBcHI91v=w884-h685-no)

## Tasks
For the task below you will need Wireshark installed.

> If you are unsure what Wireshark is, how to use or install it please have a look at the Wireshark [Introduction Module](/topics/wireshark/modules/introduction)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unsure what Wireshark is, or how to use or install it, please have a look at the Wireshark [Introduction Module](/topics/wireshark/modules/introduction)
```

### Viewing TCP Packets with Wireshark

> - We can start by running a scan for a moment until some packets come in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We can start by running a brief scan, until some packets come in.
```

> - Once there are some packets there you can stop the scan and click on one of the packets which have TCP as the protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once there are some packets there, you can stop the scan and click on one of the packets that has TCP as the protocol.
```

- On the middle window frame, select the `Transmission Control Protocol` drop down

> You should now be able to see information about the TCP packets; see how many of the properties shown in TCP Header diagram you can find here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should now be able to see information about the TCP packets. See how many of the properties shown in TCP Header diagram you can find here:
```
